As a family, we were doing
very well spiritually.
We did family worship, went preaching,
and went to the meetings together.
After some time, we began
to encounter financial problems.
At times, we did not even have money
to buy food
for each day.
Many people in our area
were going to South Africa
to provide basic needs for their families.
So I decided to go as well,
leaving behind my wife
to take care of our seven children.
This affected me spiritually
because I did not know the language,
I was unable to preach,
and I did not benefit from the meetings.
Being so far from my family
caused me to neglect
my responsibility as a family head.
As a result, my family grew weak spiritually
and we all missed each other very much.
I realized that I had made
a wrong decision going abroad.
My conscience started to trouble me greatly.
Then I remembered the example of Baruch
found at Jeremiah 45:5.
Baruch may have wanted
to pursue material riches as I had.
When he was helped, he returned.
I decided then to put Jehovah in first place
instead of searching for material things.
So I started to make changes to go home
and help my family spiritually.
When I left South Africa
and reached the border of Malawi
(after leaving my family
for about six months),
I felt great happiness in my heart,
and I am still happy till now.
Studying the Bible has helped me.
We still encounter financial problems,
but I remember that in Satan’s world,
there is nowhere we can go
and have no problems.
Now I serve as an elder.
My family is progressing spiritually.
And this makes me very happy,
because my relationship
with Jehovah is strong.